The Joe Rogan experience. As a person who performs it.
And also as an audience member,
when I'm an audience member and someone's killing,
I'm letting them think for me, right? I'm not even thinking.
I'm just like letting them take me down a trip.
Like say like David tell David tell was at the, uh,
improv the other night we worked together and he was amazing.
Like one of the best sets I've seen from him. And he's always been amazing,
but God, he was on fire and we were all, it was me, my friend,
Owen Smith and Tony Hinch cliff.
We were sitting in the back room and we were watching Dave and we were in a tra
we were just laughing. We were letting him think for us.
<laugh> you know what I'm saying? Like, he's doing all the thinking.
We just on a little ride that Dave's taken us on this ride.
And as an audience member, I recognize that there's a mass hypnosis.
There's a thing that happens where we all get into this mindset.
And if someone has like really well crafted material, like David tell,
and they take you on a, you let them, you're like, we
Ted's gonna take us on a ride. You know what I.
Mean? Think the same thing happened, uh, when a politician is speaking.
That's a good question for sure.
Trump has a lot of elements of standup comedy in his routines, for sure.
A hundred percent.
If you watch his most recent speech where he is making fun of Joe Biden saying
150 million people were killed with guns. And he's like,
can I looked at the first lady? I mean, he's literally doing standup,
who does a very good job. The way I looked at the first lady. I'm like,
where are all these bodies? Where are all these 115 million people?
That's half the population. Like they just let him say, nobody talks to him.
He's like, uh, hello, Idaho. And you're like, you're in Iowa. Oh,
like he's doing standup.
And so someone took it and they made a video saying Donald Trump at the
Apollo.
And so they put him doing this speech with audience
reaction from people watching standup comedy and laughing and a laugh track over
it. And it seems real. It seems like he's a comic. So he's what about Bernie?
Bernie? Um, for sure is a powerful speaker,
but I don't think he's that funny mean,
he'll say a funny thing every now and then. Right. But.
Are the same when you talk about like going along for the ride,
like there do win. The thinking for you is such an interesting idea.
Bernie is a trustworthy person. People trust him, they see him up there.
He's not polished. Right?
The thing about Bernie it's like when he's saying things, there's,
there's ums and there's S and there's, you know? Yeah. Buts polished.
It's a different kind of Polish. What do you mean Trump is a polished per yeah.
Like he he's like a comic doing scat, you know? It's, you know, he's like,
yeah. I'm telling you, that's exactly what it is. It's an amazing,
it's an amazing thing. He's like filling in the blanks,
loading up his weapon for the next line that he's gonna throw and called crazy.
Hillary lock her up lock it's standup. It's basically like he's doing standup.
That's why Biden is so. He's so. Cuz he can't talk. Right.
He has a really hard time talking. He keeps screwing things up. Yeah. And he,
and it's a real bad horse to bet on. Cause he's an older guy.
You're still a Bernie.
Guy, this.
Bernie. Right. I love the guy. I love what he represents. Yeah. Like I,
I don't know if he's gonna be able to get anything implemented. What I love,
what he represents is a man who wants to do good for people that
don't have much. That's that's a sentiment. There's a,
there's a quality to that that I think helps us as a community,
as a community of the United States. If we have this agreement, Hey,
let's see what we can do. Let's see what we can do to balance things out and to,
for the downtrodden, for the people that are hurting, concentrate on them.
And he's made that a huge priority of his life and always has.
And to deny that it's like, look what he's trying to do.
I don't know if he can get any of this passed.
I don't think anybody knows until he gets in there.
But the idea is we're saying we want better for people
who don't have much. Yeah. That's what he stands for.
And you can call it democratic socialism. But, but it's an idea.
The idea is like helping people, just helping people, helping people,
you don't even know,
making the world a little bit better place for the working person.
What's then the, a corollary. What's the Trump idea. And why did it succeed?
Bunch of pusies out there trying to ban free speech. A bunch of out there.
Come on. America's number one. Yeah. Yeah. There's also,
he doesn't talk like a politician. You know, he talks about China.
You go to them listening when they charge you 25% and everybody's like, yeah,
more standup. It's more standup. Right? It's way more entertaining.
He's the most entertaining. Forget about value.
Judgment of who he is as a person, without a doubt.
The most entertaining president that's ever lived and not even close.
There's not even a close second.
He burs all of them and he drags him into his fight. He,
Hillary is now talking differently about other people she said about Bernie.
Nobody liked him. She would've never said that before Donald Trump.
She would've never uttered those words.
His victory over her is deep in her DNA now.
And she's starting to exhibit some of his patterns. Yeah.
By saying nobody ever liked him. How could you say that? What kind of crazy?
Of course, millions of people like him, they're voting for him. Millions,
millions of people to say nobody liked him or nobody liked him in the,
of course, course, people like him. And then they started writing.
I like Bernie, these hashtag I like Bernie start popping up.
Like that behavior is a direct reaction to her getting
pounded on by Donald Trump through the entire campaign they're.
Losing. So let me ask you this.
You've talked to a lot of people from all different realms in here, right? Yeah.
If we can agree,
let's say that being entertaining is not a great prerequisite
or qualification for being president. If we can agree on that,
which we can definitely seems pretty.
Easy. Yes. Very easy.
Agree on, um, what can be done, whether it's in the political sphere,
the media sphere, uh, putting, uh,
something in the drinking water to let people, to encourage people,
to have a little bit more of what you're after, whether it's compassion,
whether it's understanding, whether it's balance, whether it's moderation.
In other words, why is the entertainment force winning right now?
And if you don't like that notion what can be done about it? Well.
The entertainment force is for whatever reason is being
portrayed through Trump only see he's not a politician.
He's a guy, who's a media star and he's been a media star for at gain.
He knows how to manipulate the media.
He knows how to sit on the Letterman couch and kill.
He's been doing it for a long time.
He's very comfortable being in front of cameras.
None of those people have those kind of skills and nobody thought of it as a
skill. They thought of a politician being able to do their politician stuff.
When this guy's calling you crazy, Ted or lion, Ted, you know, lion Hillary,
he just makes up Danes, soya, sleepy, Joe. I.
Mean, and I'm smiling because it's funny cuz he's at.
It's he's funny. He's good at it. Here's the problem.
You shouldn't have a God popularity contest to see who controls Thermo nuclear
weapons. That's stupid. It's stupid. They allow people to vote.
It's but it's on a popularity, but it's the system we've got.
So that what I'm I'm asking you is what now?
Well, the system's only a couple hundred years.
Old. I know. Or even the, this kind of, I mean the way that these elections are.
Cause I don't think it was. I mean, if you look at Lincoln Douglas debates,
those were actual debates with two people.
Hours, hours, and hours.
Hours. It has evolved a lot. But I mean,
let's say that you're not happy with the way it is. And there's a lot of people,
even there,
people who like Trump quite a bit on some dimensions who are very troubled by
other dimensions, there's a lot of people out there who are open to like, no,
let's, let's try to adjust the thinking. Let's try to change our minds.
Let's try to not be influenced as much by what we're being influenced by.
Do you have any, uh, do you have any pointers? The.
The real problem that we're having is this the battle of left versus
right. And the, the strongest voices on the left,
the loudest voices and the most extreme,
oftentimes are the worst representations and the same with the right,
the loudest, most extreme team member.
They're the people at the front of the line. Okay, we're gonna kick their.
I'm like, is that guy with me? <laugh> am I on this team, are we in a war now?
We're in a war with the left. Like that's what it is, you know? And um,
and there's also these ideas that we have that are cemented in stone that,
you know, if you are, uh, a left wing person, you believe in X, Y, and Z,
this is your doctrine. If you're right wing. Yeah.
Where most of us have like a little bit of this.
Maybe you believe in the second amendment,
maybe you believe in the first amendment. Maybe you think that maybe you, uh,
maybe we should incorporate a lot of the things we do with the fire department
and you know,
and do that to schools and do that to housing and do that to make sure that all
the, the stuff's covered make housing, like a,
an important part of a civilization. Like for everybody, we did a.
Piece, uh, Freakonomics radio piece, uh,
year or two ago called America's hidden doop.
And it was about the democratic and Republican party basically. Yeah.
Acting like pep Pepsi and Coke, right.
They kind of divide and conquer the market and they've built an industry that is
incredibly valuable. Yeah. The thing that's amazing to me is this, uh,
Trump won the presidency as the Republican that the RNC most wanted to get
rid of Bernie last time around was the Democrat that the
DNC wanted to get rid of.
They lost by getting their candidate Hilary in this time,
Bernie who may very well become the candidate is again,
the party that the DNC is out to get.
So what does it say that you've gotta duopoly,
literally the machines running the system that we kind of let ourselves get
manipulated into buying, like you said, I've never understood my mom,
my mom and dad were Democrats for a long, long time. Typical Catholic. Okay.
Maybe not so typical. Cause they were former Jewish Catholic,
typical Catholic working class, big family meat and potatoes issues.
No brainer that they're Democrats. Okay. And then, but my mom,
as a devout Catholic,
she started the local right to life chapter in upstate New York where we lived
New York state had legalized abortion before Roe V Wade.
So she was fighting that fight early when that happened.
And the Democrats lined up against, uh, in favor, uh,
in favor of legalized abortion. She switched parties.
Everything else about her was still mostly democratic,
but she had to become a Republican because.
Of life. And that's a, that's another powerful one that gets integrated.
Into the right. And it happens to all of us though.
We take there's one issue that kind of sets people off and then they have to
join the team. Mm-hmm <affirmative> that they may, uh, yeah. You know,